# Incremental
Simplified, seamlessly integrated development environment

Incremental is a development environment that eliminates replication of work by your computer by integrating stages of processing of source code into the event framework of the editor. Most programming editors tokenize your code to generate highlighting, but then this data is generated again when you compile. Many programming editors also parse the structure from the tokeniser, creating a rudimentary syntax tree that sometimes is used to ensure your brackets match and whatever other higher level structuring elements are in the correct order.

Instead of simply generating this data, chewing up cpu time, for a temporary result (user feedback) this processing generates data that is ready to feed into the language translator (a component of compilers) so that as soon as the tokeniser and lexical analyser are finished, they can be sent on to the language translator and translated into the target language.

In vala the initial target language is the GNU developed language similar to C# called Vala. The Vala compiler is written in Vala so its' code is easily amenable to being incorporated into this project. Vala compiles into C, meaning that for the initial work, only tokeniser, parser and language translator are interfaced with. Once the Vala compiler generates C code, it would then be sent into GCC to be converted into assembly language and thence into binary code and linked. Incremental will cache these objects intermediate stages, calling them in a background, server thread, and linking them into the journal. Obviously it would be preferable if the target of the compiler was directly machine code, but valid C code will emerge at the end of the current processing stream for now. It is possible already to invoke GCC upon very rudimentary elements of a program, so the C compiler will only recompile changed parts and then the resultant assembler code will be generated, translated and the new form of the changed binary object linked.

The next important feature of Incremental is a journal system. Incremental stores its own state in a journal, and native Incremental documents are not the assembled final form, but a log of the edits as they were made, so no matter how long ago (within reasonable limits) you can go back and inspect old changes or roll back the whole thing to a chosen prior point of development. Undo will not be limited to the current session, it will go back to the original creation of a new document.

From this journal data structure I will be implementing a file-by-file bittorrent seeding infrastructure, and a custom tracker that can be queried to find specific trees of existing processing journals, and allow another user to replicate parts of processed code stored in of someone's code including the compiled and intermediate objects, or skip the intermediate objects and only pull down the source and binary and thus implement a seamless distribution system. 

Eliminating arbitrary boundaries in processes of software development and distribution is the objective of Incremental, while retaining the advantages of more optimised, faster-running executable objects.

## About the creator of Incremental

Loki Verloren, given the name David Vennik at birth, is an Australian/Dutch citizen, currently living in Amsterdam. He has avidly studied computer science (abstract data structures, language translation, feedback-driven dynamical systems) and various fields of mathematics such as topology, chaos theory, network theory, number theory, in general science quantum and relativistic physics, organic chemistry, pharmacology and the biology of metabolism and nervous systems. Beset by circumstance and 'divergent' cognitive processes and a rebellious streak, he feels that now is the time, with the conditions as they are, to finally make a splash in the field of software development.

## Technical Details

This application is being build within the Elementary OS "freya" beta and depends on Gtk+ 3.12 and Vala 0.27.1, and, of course, a full working GNU development toolchain, it configures and builds with GNU autotools. With everything in place you just './autogen.sh' and then 'make' and to install, if you want, 'make install' but it can be run directly out of the src/ directory. Further details on how to build this will come later, when there is more to work with that beginners or non-technical types, there will be packaging done for installing binaries, initially on linux but the dependent libraries can be used in Windows and MacOS apps so there will be versions eventually for these environments.
